# Python-Project

1. Partners: Kate Thompson and Charlotte Sladek
2. Research Question: How does parental income and educational attainment impact student educational achievement (as measured by SAT scores, ACT scores, high school GPA, college GPA, and years to graduate college), and how can we create a model to predict a school's educational metrics based on its income-to-poverty ratio (IPR)? Can we create a model to predict somebody’s “college destiny” on the basis of their parental income and education level?
3. Coding work that has been completed: We have analyzed correlation within the educational training data set (Kaggle data set with data on 1000 individual students). We have also developed several simple linear regression models using scikit-learn to predict educational metrics based on a school's IPR and graphed histograms of the predicted distributions along with statistics such as the min, max, mean, median, and mode of the predicted data. We also made a multiple linear regression model that takes user input and displays the predicted college GPA and predicted years to graduate college based on that input.
4. Future coding work (as of the Project Check-In; we have now done this and it no longer applies): We plan to refine our models, as some of them are outputting unrealistic values (such as an ACT score of 45). We also plan to analyze our inital data set (from Kaggle) more and formalize our assumptions as well as examine bias within the datasets (we know there is bias in the Kaggle data, our training data for the models, because the models are predicting unreasonably high values). // Update: The reason for the unrealistic data outputs is because we had accidentally mapped parental income to IPR using the median income rather than the poverty level income. Upon updating this variable, our models began to output realistic results.
5. So far, we are able to see that higher parental income positively impacts students' educational achievement, on average. For example, students with higher parental incomes score higher on the SAT and ACT, haver higher GPAs, and graduate college in fewer years, on average, than students with lower parental incomes. However, the correlation is somewhat weak and it should not be considered that a low-income student is predestined to do poorly academically. // Update: Our simple linear regression models were applied to our large school IPR dataset and were able to predict each school's educational metrics. We also created a "College Destiny Calculator."
